[Music]
hello my name is Krishna come welcome to
my youtube channel so guys I was
actually trying to reform at my NLP
playlist because there was some mistakes
and I had actually made those videos
private so now you'll be able to see the
videos and if you want to actually see
the link the link will basically be
given in the description of the NLD
playlist itself right now let us go
ahead and try to understand the first
thing that is called a stemming and
limitation and one important thing about
natural language processing guys over
there all our input data and will be in
the form of text data right and we
cannot just give our text data back to
our model you know machine learning
model and machine learning model will
not understand what is that text data at
all so what we do is that we try to
pre-process that data we try to convert
that into some numerical representation
which we basically call it as vectors so
probably now from there some videos that
are going to come currently it is
stemming unlimited in my next video I'll
be explaining about bag-of-words tf-idf
and everything will be available in the
playlist itself
okay the link is given in the
description so let us understand what
the stemming a limitation mean this is
the Wikipedia definition guys process of
reducing infected words to the word stem
okay so stemming is a process wherein we
are reducing the infected word to the
word stem what does this mean suppose I
have some words like history and
historical and if I try to apply
stemming this will get converted to
history okay H is cor I okay now
similarly if I have some words like
finally final finalized it is going to
get reduced to the word stem understand
what is the word stem over a finer finer
finer write so this is going to get
reduced and we are actually getting this
particular word itself final there are
also some use cases like curve if I
consider going go goes gone if I try to
convert this by using stemming this is
going to get converted into go okay now
why why do we require stemming okay
we'll come to limit addition but just
understand why do we require stemming
this understand in NLP most of the use
case that you have seen this
like sentiment analysis they use kiss
like determining spam classifier they
use kisses like to understand restaurant
reviews and provide some ratings you
know in that particular use case the
most important things in in that
particular words or the comments that
people people are actually putting the
most important things are basically the
word stem words well get the stem the
word stem which is the base word right
that is pretty much important by just
having that particular word we will be
able to determine whether that word is
positive or negative okay so that is
what is stemming now what what does
limitation do limitation also do is the
same thing but it converts that word and
whatever word we are getting it is a
meaningful word basically understood by
human being you know it is a it is a
meaningful word in this particular
situation you can see history and
historical get converted into history h
IH tu RI this will not make sense right
what is this particular word all about
right similarly if I say finally final
and finalized I am getting final fi na
but whether if if I apply lemma
titration here I'm actually getting
final right and this all is possible by
using a library which is called as
analytical and in the future upcoming
lessons I'll also be coming with Spacey
libraries which is pretty much amazing
you know spacey library is also very
good library with respect to NLP work
that is national language processing
right but if I take this example of
going goes and gone for all this three
words both stemming and limitation also
works similar you know so for some of
the words stemming may not give you a
proper representation may not give you a
meaningful meaningful representation you
know the human being will not be able to
understand whereas limitation is focused
on giving a representation which is
quite more meaningful now understand the
basic difference between stemming a
limitation the first repre you know
difference is basically let me tell you
say when it is converting or when it is
giving another form of the word it may
it will definitely have some meaning
whereas over here in stemming the word
representation will not have any meaning
you know some of the word representation
will not have it any meaning okay the
second difference is that limit ization
takes usually lot of time because to
come to a meaningful word it usually
takes time it has to do that processing
it needs to understand each and
everything inside that particular word
whereas in stemming it does not take
that much time because it's just trying
to find out the base word right now the
third difference is that what all kind
of applications we can use limitation
understanding if I go to stemming guys
some of the application of sentiment
classifier you know positive negative
sentiment analysis Gmail spam classifier
you know so these are this all things
can be used in stemming because
understand we just need to find out the
base word okay we will not represent the
word in the proper sentence you know a
proper meaning should not be there in
the word we're just trying to find out
the base word we had we have those data
in our training data set and then we'll
be able to determine the sentiment
analysis where is limitation used
limitation can be used in chat BOTS it
can be used in question answer
application because the response that a
human gets from those application is
meaningful right so we need to have that
meaningful representation right so I
hope you have understood about stemming
a limit ization my next video will be
with respect to bag of words how we can
actually implement bag of words you know
with the help of analytical library that
whole working I'll be showing you how it
works I'll be taking a very good example
and what all things are computed in bag
of words I'll be showing in this
particular board itself so yes this was
all about this particular video I hope
you liked it please do subscribe the
channel if you're not already subscribed
make sure you have a great day thank you
one and all bye bye
